TODO ITEMS
----------

Last modification information:
$Header: /home/jblang/XaoS-cvsbackup/XaoS/TODO,v 1.10 2008-03-05 11:02:08 rxpi Exp $


General todos (for all platforms)
---------------------------------

  o  Update catalogs for tutorials.
  o  Fix -threads 200 problem.
  o  Fix multithreaded boundary trace algorithm.
  o  Remove playstring, because it is obsolette now. (?)
  o  Document smoothmorph. (?)
  o  Make this list shorter. :)
  o  Solve syncing in X driver...
  o  X Window System screen saver version idea:
        Calculate big Mandelbrot.
	Then using autopilot select good point.
	Display smaller rectangle (320x200) and make
	zoom to this point inside.
	Do this repeatively for more points. Then you
	will get main Mandelbrot with more zoom
	windows. Select most interesting one.
	Make it big again.
	And repeat... :)
	Easy! Isn't it?
  o  More ports of course...
  o  Video sequence saving. Make support for creating 
     movie file with saved movements and possibly calculated
     points. This should make very small movie files with
     approx. 1113 points for one frame. 500kb = 500 frames = 25
     seconds of animation with compression about 50% (runlength
     or lzo library).
  o  Automatic recalculation of videos for other resolution 
     or configuration. Because movie files will require 
     exactly same optimizations and movements as they 
     were created. 
  o  Use CLN (numeric library) for optimizing calculations.
  o  Trying to use FFTW package to support high precision
     calculations for >10e20 zooms with Fast Fourier Transform.
  o  Finishing internationalization.
  o  Adding more fractal types (Newton^k etc.).

BeOS related todos
------------------

  o  Avoid mouse pooling in DirectScreen driver.
  o  Figure out how to get image directory in translator.
  o  Fix configure dialog in XaoS translator.
  o  Does translator need to support all bitmap types?
  o  Figure out how to get the red, green and blue masks in DirectScreen.
  o  Support for scripting - XaoS's internal scripting langugage should be
     probably well mapped to Be's scripting system. But I am not sure how much is
     useful and I would like to see any good examples for usage of scripting first.
  o  Change XaoS to the Media Node producing video stream from XaoS save
     files.... How much this can be useful? For recording XaoS's videos?
     Filtering it using Be's Nodes?
     Can we use it for interactive mode too? Can be this useful for
     something? Anyway I seems to like Be's node system (very similar to
     filter system internally used by XaoS) and I would like to try its
     programming.
     Maybe the GUI should be external program starting XaoS Node use the
     scripting (or send the XaoS' commands) to control XaoS. Then we should
     probably add any Be's filtering node to XaoS's filtering system...

Windows related todos
---------------------

  o  Fix problems in windowsed directX mode and palette.
  o  AAlib driver?
  
DOS related todos
-----------------

  o  Latin2 fonts for some basic messages use incorrect code page.

Please contact the developers if you want to do something
from this long todo. :)

Additional... (for 3.1.3+)
--------------------------

  o  fix Daniel Skarda's entry in help/authors [DONE]
  o  put version string to only one place [DONE]
  o  review documentation (wiki?) [DONE]
  o  create mktgz and other cool tools
