Internationalization (i18n) in XaoS
-----------------------------------

Zoltan Kovacs <kovzol@math.u-szeged.hu>

26 August 2002


1. INTRODUCTION

As of version 3.1, i18n support will be added to XaoS. This is done
with the GNU gettext utility. In this first release only the menus
and some internal strings can be translated, the old method in
../../catalogs haven't changed yet.

Note that i18n cannot be used if you don't have gettext installed
on your system. I used gettext-0.10.37 which works greatly.


2. HOW TO INSTALL A NEW LANGUAGE

* Edit Makefile.in, add your 2 letter long language code in the first row
  (e.g. "cz" for Czech, "de" for German).
	
* Type "./configure" in the directory ../.., then come back.

* Type "make new-languages". This will generate a so-called .po-file
  for you (e.g. "cz.po" or "de.po"). 

* Edit the generated file manually. The first 15 lines should be fill in
  properly, otherwise nothing will work in your language. The other lines
  should be also fill in respectively. Note that you only should change
  the "msgstr" rows. See the Hungarian language file, "hu.po" for example.

* Type a "make" to generate the so-called .mo-files. These files will be
  installed later to the directory /usr/share/locale/. You should have
  superuser rights to install them to their appropriate place with
  the well known statement "make install".

* That's all, start XaoS and enjoy it. ;-)

* Please share your .po-file with the others! You may inform me that a
  new language file was created by you. If it works, we will add it to
  the CVS tree of XaoS as well.


3. EXPERT'S GUIDE

I'm not an expert, I just only want to share my little knowledge with you
if you're interested:

* To set up different languages and try out each one you probably have
  to set the LANG variable. E.g., I had to change it to de_DE or hu_HU
  to test different languages.
	
* Read the gettext howto ("info gettext"). It's quite long, though.

* To internationalize other texts in XaoS, you should edit first the 
  variable CSOURCES in the makefile. Second, each "not static" string
  in these C sources may be internationalized with the gettext()
  function. See the existing tags for example. Again, please share
  your modified code with us.
	
	
4. FUTURE PLANS

XaoS is a valuable software, this is my opinion. This is the reason why
I plan to continue its internationalizaton. Though, I'm not sure
I will be finished with it at all. Your help is welcome!
