Preamble: this text is quite outdated, but we keep it for historical
reasons. This text was written in the late 90's and Honza's situation
changed since then. However, you are still encouraged to support
free software developers all around the world! ;-D

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Hi,

I am Czech student, and as everyone I need some money for living, to
keep my computer hardware up to date, girls etc. :). Because I am
spending lots of time by working on free software projects, my situation
isn't the best. If you use my programs, I would like to ask you to send
me some small amount of money. This donation helps me to do more work on
my projects and avoid  some boring commercial jobs. 

I have already received some money, that helped me to buy computer to
Prague, upgrade my HDD, buy some books and Hercules (and XaoS now
supports text mode :). Thank you very much. 

I would also like to say "thank you" to someone from Brasil, who sent me
the money, but I was unable to contact him by email, since his address
written in his letter didn't work. So I hope that he will read this file
and see my thanks here.

If you wish to help me or the XaoS development group, please send some
money to

Jan Hubicka
Dukeskych bojovniku 1944
Tabor 390 03
Czech Republic

I must say, that I am not only author of whole XaoS, but I've done most
of the main routines. Author of other parts are listed in the AUTHORS
files. So if you wish, you may contact them too.

We also created a Czech Free Software Foundation targeting to support
development of free software in Czech Republic. Current projects are:

* Domain .gnu.cz (www server, ftp etc.)
* Linux for Czech Users
* Free Software for blind users
* DebianCZ (Czech support for Debian GNU/Linux distribution)
* Linux seminary

and others. If you wish to get more information about this organization,
browse its homepage at http://www.freesoft.cz. Information for sponsors
are at http://www.freesoft.cz/english/sponzor.txt.

This program is a part of GNU project. If you want to help GNU project,
as a whole, you might sponsor FSF (Free Software Foundation). Please see
GNU homepage at http://www.gnu.org.

Honza
